---
id: 29
title: 'E- Waste'
date: 2010-07-02T12:10:00+00:00
author: admin
layout: post
guid: http://www.ascendpartnership.net/?p=29
permalink: /2010/07/02/e-waste/
categories:
  - Technology
---
When everybody is rejoicing over the electronic and technological revolution, I am having my own concern on the e-waste created out of it. In fact, it is a worrying factor that the world is going to face the problem of e-waste in a very larger proposition in the days to come. In a country like India the e-waste generated during 2007 is estimated at 3.3 lakh tons. The recycling of the waste is attempted by many leading companies like Nokia and Toshiba. But the extent of the recycling done by them is very little compared to the total extent of waste that is generated. It is observed by many people in this field that the E-waste problem is going to be worse than the issue of poverty bad pollution.

There should be some legislation by each country to go in for producing such items in a green way to ensure that they are recycled. It can also be thought of to have a unified international governing body to stipulate such kinds of legislation to control this menace. Instead of heavily depending on such rules and regulations expected from the various regulators, individual users of such electronic goods must try to reuse such items and recycle it to avoid the problem. The healthy way to deal with an old and obsolete house hold electronic item is to donate the same to the needy who can use it instead of dumping it in the street as e-waste.

The manufacturing companies should also come forward to take back the old electronic items while the consumer is demanding for the new one. The various usable parts in the used items should be put in to use in the factory level so that the wastage is kept at the minimum level. Consumer should also be conscious about his responsibility to inform the local authorities if any harmful toxic elements are found in the electronic goods that are purchased.