---
id: 454
title: Hellcats
date: 2010-09-29T19:51:37+00:00
author: admin
layout: post
guid: http://www.ascendpartnership.net/?p=454
permalink: /2010/09/29/hellcats/
categories:
  - General
---
Guest post from: Constance Rodgers

For years, &nbsp;tv direct in Texas&nbsp; has denigrated cheerleader&#8217;s reputation as shallow, stuck up, slutty and verbal bullies. Enter &#8220;Hellcats&#8221; premiering on Wednesdays on the CW. It&#8217;s supposed to be a sweet look at the Lancer University cheer squad as they are being invaded by a sneering outsider Marti Perkins (Alyson Michalka). Marti labels them as &#8216;happy little cult members&#8217; while her friend Dan (Matt Barr) pontificates that he &#8220;doesn&#8217;t trust any culture that builds pyramids.&#8221; Fortuitously (for us), it appears cheerleading is the only thing that can save the world&#8230;.. er, i mean her scholarship after her original providers cancel.

In a &#8220;surprising&#8221; twist, it turns out she is only the greatest cheerleader ever. After wowing the judges at tryouts, she pretty much schools the girls at her first practice. It may not be intended as such, but this is pure comedy gold.

Marti also finds plenty of new dating prospects on the squad including Lewis (Robbie Jones), who is the bad boy cheerleader with a heart of gold. She also gets a chance at a BFF in Savannah (Ashley Tisdale). Savannah gives a blistering defense worthy Perry Mason on how cheerleading is somehow a sport. But before she starts swearing pom poms 4 life, Dan intervenes to keep Marti on the straight and narrow.

Outside of the unintentional comedy, there&#8217;s a certain thrill in rooting for the loner made part of the family storyline. &nbsp;Hellcats&nbsp; definitely looks promising enough to check out on satellite tv.